# What is ATAG

ATAG (ACI Test Auto Generator), also formerly known as dafe2rasta, is a tool to automatically generate ACI RASTA/CXTA test cases based on a DAFE Excel sheet.

The tool supports the following type of test cases:

1. Configuration verification
2. Fault verification
3. Operational State verification

The test cases generated by the tool can be executed using the RASTA/CXTA tools and uses the ACI API for the test execution.

Please find the project documentation in this space, which includes:

* [Installation Guide](Installing-ATAG.md)
* [User Guide](Using-ATAG.md)
* [Executing ACI Tests](Executing-ACI-Tests.md)
* [Which test cases are supported ?](Template-Coverage.md)
* [Support](Getting_Support.md)

If you have questions, join the ATAG User Webex Teams room through <https://eurl.io/#SJJfoqILV>

## Why automating ACI Testing?

Automating ACI testing have multiple benefits - not only for the individual engineer performing the tests but also for the project you work on.

With automated testing you can troubleshoot customer networks faster, **and** improve assurance that you as the engineer have done a proper job.

Automated testing allow time consuming manual tests to be done within minutes at the click of a button, allowing you to focus on more rewarding tasks. It also enables testing to be performed at every time a change to the configuration have been made, which allows you to catch potential issues faster.

Lastly, automated testing allows tests to be performed in a consistent manner regardless who and when the tests are performed.  

## Related tools

Information about related tools can be found here:

* DAFE: <https://wwwin-gitlab-sjc.cisco.com/fadallar/DAFE>
* RASTA: <https://wwwin-github.cisco.com/pages/AS-Community/RASTA/Installing-RASTA/>
* CXTA: <https://wwwin-github.cisco.com/pages/AS-Community/CXTA/>
